ActiveRDF is a library for accessing RDF data from Ruby programs. It can be used 
as data layer in Ruby-on-Rails, similar to ActiveRecord (which provides an O/R 
mapping to relational databases). ActiveRDF in RoR allows you to create semantic 
web applications very rapidly. ActiveRDF gives you a Domain Specific Language 
(DSL) for your RDF model: you can address RDF resources, classes, properties, 
etc. programmatically, without queries.

See http://www.activerdf.org for more information.

== Installing

$ rake install

<em>To use ActiveRDF with Sesame or Jena, you must use it with JRuby. 
To install ActiveRDF on JRuby, use the command below:</em>
$ jruby -S rake install

== Simple Example

The following example uses a SPARQL endpoint with FOAF data and displays all 
people found in the data source:

 require 'rubygems'
 require 'active_rdf'
 ActiveRDF::ConnectionPool.add_data_source :type => :sparql, :host => '...'
 ActiveRDF::Namespace.register :foaf, 'http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/'
 ActiveRDF::ObjectManager.construct_classes
 people = FOAF::Person.find_all

== Sesame native store example

ActiveRDF::ConnectionPool.add_data_source :type => :sesame, :location => 'path/to/store/dir', :inferencing => true

== OWLIM-SE store example

ActiveRDF::ConnectionPool.add_data_source :type => :sesame, :location => 'path/to/store/dir', :backend => 'owlim-se', :ruleset => 'owl-horst'

<b>To use ActiveRDF with OWLIM-SE store, you must ask for the OWLIM-SE >= 4.1 at http://www.ontotext.com/owlim.</b>
After get OWLIM-SE files, execute the procedure below:
1. Extract OWLIM-SE files on yout local computer;
2. Copy the content of 'lib' and 'ext' directories (from OWLIM-SE) to activerdf-sesame/ext;
3. Run rake install again.

<em>Licence information: The OWLIM-SE LICENCE is granted free of charge. The LICENCEE is allowed to install and use the PRODUCTS for research and evaluation
purposes only. For more details see http://www.ontotext.com/owlim-license-agreement.</em>

== License
ActiveRDF is distributed under the LGPL[http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html] license.

== Authors
* Eyal Oren
* Renaud Delbru
* Sebastian Gerke
* Benjamin Heitmann
